Fall 2024/ALY6000 – Intro Analytics/Project 2 – EDA Two Datasets/README.md, before:

\# ALY6000 — Project 2: EDA of Two Datasets

\*\*Term:\*\* Fall 2024  

\*\*Tech:\*\* R (tidyverse, janitor, ggplot2)



\## Objective

Perform exploratory data analysis on two datasets to practice wrangling, summaries, feature engineering and basic visualization:

1\) \*\*World Happiness (2015)\*\* — regional happiness \& freedom  

2\) \*\*MLB 1986 Batting\*\* — player stats (HR, RBI, BA, OBP) and MVP ranking



\## Methods

\- `janitor::clean\_names()` to standardize fields

\- Grouped summaries (`dplyr::group\_by/summarise`)

\- Feature engineering: \*\*BA = H/AB\*\*, \*\*OBP = (H+BB)/(AB+BB)\*\*

\- Simple ranking by combined ranks of HR, RBI, OBP

\- `ggplot2` scatter/histogram visuals



\## Key Results

\- Clear HR–RBI relationship; a transparent MVP shortlist via total rank

\- Regional differences in happiness vs. freedom; visible cluster patterns



\## Repo Structure

Project 2 – EDA Two Datasets/

├─ src/

│ └─ Project2\_Script.R

├─ docs/

│ └─ Project2\_Report.pdf

└─ data/

├─ 2015.csv

└─ baseball.csv



\## How to Run

1\. Open `src/Project2\_Script.R` in \*\*RStudio\*\*.  

2\. Ensure `data/2015.csv` and `data/baseball.csv` exist (already included here).  

3\. Install required packages if missing:

&nbsp;  ```r

&nbsp;  install.packages(c("tidyverse","janitor","ggplot2"))

4\. Source the script; outputs are printed/visualized inline.

Notes



Author

Yash Amit Singh

Commit message:

Added README with objective, methods, run steps

Fall 2024/ALY6000 – Intro Analytics/Project 2 – EDA Two Datasets/README.md, after:

\# ALY6000 — Project 2: EDA of Two Datasets

\*\*Term:\*\* Fall 2024  

\*\*Tech:\*\* R (tidyverse, janitor, ggplot2)



\## Objective

Perform exploratory data analysis on two datasets to practice wrangling, summaries, feature engineering and basic visualization:

1\) \*\*World Happiness (2015)\*\* — regional happiness \& freedom  

2\) \*\*MLB 1986 Batting\*\* — player stats (HR, RBI, BA, OBP) and MVP ranking



\## Methods

\- `janitor::clean\_names()` to standardize fields

\- Grouped summaries (`dplyr::group\_by/summarise`)

\- Feature engineering: \*\*BA = H/AB\*\*, \*\*OBP = (H+BB)/(AB+BB)\*\*

\- Simple ranking by combined ranks of HR, RBI, OBP

\- `ggplot2` scatter/histogram visuals



\## Key Results

\- Clear HR–RBI relationship; a transparent MVP shortlist via total rank

\- Regional differences in happiness vs. freedom; visible cluster patterns



\## Repo Structure

Project 2 – EDA Two Datasets/

├─ src/

│ └─ Project2\_Script.R

├─ docs/

│ └─ Project2\_Report.pdf

└─ data/

├─ 2015.csv

└─ baseball.csv



\## How to Run

1\. Open `src/Project2\_Script.R` in \*\*RStudio\*\*.  

2\. Ensure `data/2015.csv` and `data/baseball.csv` exist (already included here).  

3\. Install required packages if missing:

install.packages(c("tidyverse","janitor","ggplot2"))

4\. Source the script; outputs are printed/visualized inline.

Notes
-Course instruction PDFs/tests are not included to keep the repo focused on my deliverables.

-Datasets are small and included for reproducibility; if you prefer, swap with your own copies and keep the file names.


Author
Yash Amit Singh
